
## Deployment

Deployment is one of the mechanisms for handling workloads (applications) in Kubernetes. It is managed by Kubernetes Deployment Controller.

In Kubernetes, controllers are control loops that watch the state of your cluster, then make or request changes where needed. Each controller tries to move the current cluster state closer to the desired state.

Deployment is an abstraction over ReplicaSet. Under the hood, Deployment creates a ReplicaSet which in turn creates pods on our cluster. As per the name, ReplicaSet is used for managing the replicas of our pods.

In summary, Controller reads the Deployment spec, forwards the pod configuration to ReplicaSet and then it creates the pods with proper replicas.



Deployement >> Replicaset >> POD 

Deployment-Controller>> ReplicationController>> pod 

dep1 >> 10 POds >> nginx 



#### Rolling updates Deployment:
Kubernetes promises zero down time and one of the reasons behind it is Rolling Deployments. With Rolling Deployments, Kubernetes makes sure that the traffic to the pods are not interrupted when updated pods are being deployed.


#### Rollback Deployment:
Rollback Deployment means, going back to the previous instance of the deployment if there is some issue with the current deployment.


```bash
kubectl get namespaces
kubectl create namespace cka3
kubectl get pods --namespace cka3
```

Deployment Create >> deploy1 >> ReplicaSet

```bash
kubectl explain deployment
```

Create a file name deployment.yaml
```bash
---
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: demodeployment1
spec:
  replicas: 5
  template:
    metadata:
      name: pod1
      labels:
        dept: cse
        batch: sixth
    spec:
      containers:
       - name: doc1
         image: nginx
  selector:
   matchLabels:
     dept: cse
     batch: sixth
```


```bash
kubectl apply -f deployment.yaml --namespace cka3
kubectl get pods --namespace cka3
```

### Scale 
```bash
kubectl scale deployment --replicas 10 --namespace cka3 demodeployment1
```
### Image change
```bash
kubectl set image deployment/demodeployment1 doc1=redis --namespace cka3
kubectl describe deployments.apps --namespace cka3 demodeployment1  (image will be update nginx to redis)
```



### Edit deployment (edit replica 5 to 10)
```bash

```
